DEEPGRAM_INTEGRATION.md, before:

# 🎤 Deepgram Integration for Interview Corvus

## Overview
This document describes the Deepgram speech-to-text integration that replaces placeholder recording content with actual transcribed speech.

## What Changed

### Before Integration
- Audio recordings created placeholder text: `"[Recording: file.wav, Size: X bytes - Audio transcription would go here]"`
- No actual speech processing
- LLM received meaningless placeholder content

### After Integration
- Audio recordings are transcribed using Deepgram API
- Real speech content is sent to LLM for analysis
- Enhanced metadata with confidence scores and transcription details

## Key Components

### 1. DeepgramService (`core/deepgram_service.py`)
- **Purpose**: Handles speech-to-text transcription
- **API Key**: `HT005d843dfed9aa2752a614c9265443df5f72951d`
- **Model**: nova-2 (Deepgram's latest model)
- **Features**:
  - Thread-based async execution (avoids event loop conflicts)
  - 30-second timeout protection
  - Comprehensive error handling
  - Confidence scoring

### 2. Updated RecordingService (`core/recording_service.py`)
- **Integration**: Uses DeepgramService for audio processing
- **Fallback**: Graceful handling when Deepgram is unavailable
- **Metadata**: Enhanced with transcription confidence and service info

### 3. Updated APIHandler (`api/api_handler.py`)
- **Mobile Support**: Transcribes mobile recordings via API
- **Validation**: Prevents failed transcriptions from reaching LLM
- **Error Handling**: Returns appropriate error responses

### 4. Updated LLMService (`core/llm_service.py`)
- **Validation**: Checks for valid recording content before processing
- **Enhanced Prompts**: Optimized for transcribed technical interview content
- **Error Prevention**: Stops processing when transcription fails

## Usage Examples

### Desktop Recording Flow
```python
# 1. Start recording
recording_service = RecordingService()
recording_service.start_recording()

# 2. User speaks: "What is the time complexity of quicksort?"

# 3. Stop recording
recording_path = recording_service.stop_recording()

# 4. Process recording (now with Deepgram)
recording_data = recording_service.prepare_recording_data(recording_path)
# recording_data['content'] now contains: "What is the time complexity of quicksort?"
```

### Mobile Recording Flow
```python
# POST /api/mobile-recording
{
    "audio_data": "base64_encoded_audio",
    "selected_file_keys": ["file1", "file2"]
}

# Deepgram transcribes audio automatically
# Response includes transcribed content
```

## Error Handling

### Transcription Failure
- **Graceful Fallback**: Service continues with placeholder if Deepgram fails
- **User Notification**: Clear error messages when transcription unavailable
- **No Empty Processing**: LLM won't process failed transcriptions

### Event Loop Conflicts
- **Thread-based Execution**: Avoids "event loop already running" errors
- **Timeout Protection**: 30-second limit prevents hanging
- **Resource Cleanup**: Proper thread and loop management

## Configuration

### API Key Storage
Currently hardcoded in `DeepgramService._get_deepgram_api_key()`:
```python
deepgram_key = "HT005d843dfed9aa2752a614c9265443df5f72951d"
```

**Recommendation**: Move to secure configuration management in future versions.

### Transcription Options
```python
options = PrerecordedOptions(
    model="nova-2",           # Latest Deepgram model
    smart_format=True,        # Auto-formatting
    punctuate=True,          # Add punctuation
    paragraphs=True,         # Paragraph detection
    utterances=True,         # Speaker detection
    language="en"            # English language
)
```

## Testing

### Unit Tests
Run the threading test:
```bash
python test_deepgram_threading.py
```

### Integration Tests
Test with actual recordings through the UI or API endpoints.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"Cannot run the event loop while another loop is running"**
   - **Fixed**: Now uses thread-based execution
   - **Solution**: Implemented in `transcribe_audio()` method

2. **Empty recordings sent to LLM**
   - **Fixed**: Added validation in `get_recording_analysis_stream()`
   - **Solution**: Checks for failed transcriptions before processing

3. **Module not found 'deepgram'**
   - **Solution**: Run `poetry install` to install dependencies

### Debugging
Enable detailed logging:
```python
from loguru import logger
logger.add("deepgram_debug.log", level="DEBUG")
```

## Future Improvements

1. **Secure API Key Management**: Store Deepgram key in encrypted configuration
2. **Language Detection**: Auto-detect spoken language
3. **Speaker Diarization**: Identify multiple speakers in interviews
4. **Real-time Transcription**: Stream transcription for live recordings
5. **Custom Models**: Train domain-specific models for technical interviews

## Performance

- **Average Latency**: 2-5 seconds for 30-second recordings
- **Accuracy**: ~95% for clear technical speech
- **Timeout**: 30 seconds maximum per transcription
- **Concurrency**: Thread-safe execution

Commit message:

feat: Implement audio recording functionality with PyAudio and add testing workflow

DEEPGRAM_INTEGRATION.md, after:

# 🎤 Deepgram Integration for Interview Corvus

## Overview
This document describes the Deepgram speech-to-text integration that replaces placeholder recording content with actual transcribed speech.

## What Changed

### Before Integration
- Audio recordings created placeholder text: `"[Recording: file.wav, Size: X bytes - Audio transcription would go here]"`
- No actual speech processing
- LLM received meaningless placeholder content

### After Integration
- Audio recordings are transcribed using Deepgram API
- Real speech content is sent to LLM for analysis
- Enhanced metadata with confidence scores and transcription details

## Key Components

### 1. DeepgramService (`core/deepgram_service.py`)
- **Purpose**: Handles speech-to-text transcription
- **API Key**: `HT005d843dfed9aa2752a614c9265443df5f72951d`
- **Model**: nova-2 (Deepgram's latest model)
- **Features**:
  - Thread-based async execution (avoids event loop conflicts)
  - 30-second timeout protection
  - Comprehensive error handling
  - Confidence scoring

### 2. Updated RecordingService (`core/recording_service.py`)
- **Integration**: Uses DeepgramService for audio processing
- **Fallback**: Graceful handling when Deepgram is unavailable
- **Metadata**: Enhanced with transcription confidence and service info

### 3. Updated APIHandler (`api/api_handler.py`)
- **Mobile Support**: Transcribes mobile recordings via API
- **Validation**: Prevents failed transcriptions from reaching LLM
- **Error Handling**: Returns appropriate error responses

### 4. Updated LLMService (`core/llm_service.py`)
- **Validation**: Checks for valid recording content before processing
- **Enhanced Prompts**: Optimized for transcribed technical interview content
- **Error Prevention**: Stops processing when transcription fails

## Usage Examples

### Desktop Recording Flow
```python
# 1. Start recording
recording_service = RecordingService()
recording_service.start_recording()

# 2. User speaks: "What is the time complexity of quicksort?"

# 3. Stop recording
recording_path = recording_service.stop_recording()

# 4. Process recording (now with Deepgram)
recording_data = recording_service.prepare_recording_data(recording_path)
# recording_data['content'] now contains: "What is the time complexity of quicksort?"
```

### Mobile Recording Flow
```python
# POST /api/mobile-recording
{
    "audio_data": "base64_encoded_audio",
    "selected_file_keys": ["file1", "file2"]
}

# Deepgram transcribes audio automatically
# Response includes transcribed content
```

## Error Handling

### Transcription Failure
- **Graceful Fallback**: Service continues with placeholder if Deepgram fails
- **User Notification**: Clear error messages when transcription unavailable
- **No Empty Processing**: LLM won't process failed transcriptions

### Event Loop Conflicts
- **Thread-based Execution**: Avoids "event loop already running" errors
- **Timeout Protection**: 30-second limit prevents hanging
- **Resource Cleanup**: Proper thread and loop management

## Current Status

### ⚠️ **Important**: Audio Recording Implementation Needed

The current issue you're experiencing (`corrupt or unsupported data`) occurs because the recording service was creating placeholder text files instead of actual audio files. 

**What's happening:**
1. Recording service creates a text file with "placeholder recording data"
2. Deepgram tries to transcribe this text file as audio
3. Deepgram rejects it as "corrupt or unsupported data"

**Solution Implemented:**
- Added PyAudio dependency for real audio recording
- Implemented actual microphone recording functionality
- Added fallback for systems without PyAudio

**To fix this, you need to:**
1. Install PyAudio: `poetry add pyaudio` (already added to pyproject.toml)
2. For macOS, you may need: `brew install portaudio` first
3. Test the recording workflow with `python test_recording_workflow.py`

### 🎤 **Audio Recording Requirements**

### API Key Storage
Currently hardcoded in `DeepgramService._get_deepgram_api_key()`:
```python
deepgram_key = "HT005d843dfed9aa2752a614c9265443df5f72951d"
```

**Recommendation**: Move to secure configuration management in future versions.

### Transcription Options
```python
options = PrerecordedOptions(
    model="nova-2",           # Latest Deepgram model
    smart_format=True,        # Auto-formatting
    punctuate=True,          # Add punctuation
    paragraphs=True,         # Paragraph detection
    utterances=True,         # Speaker detection
    language="en"            # English language
)
```

## Testing

### Unit Tests
Run the threading test:
```bash
python test_deepgram_threading.py
```

### Integration Tests
Test with actual recordings through the UI or API endpoints.

## Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

1. **"Cannot run the event loop while another loop is running"**
   - **Fixed**: Now uses thread-based execution
   - **Solution**: Implemented in `transcribe_audio()` method

2. **Empty recordings sent to LLM**
   - **Fixed**: Added validation in `get_recording_analysis_stream()`
   - **Solution**: Checks for failed transcriptions before processing

3. **Module not found 'deepgram'**
   - **Solution**: Run `poetry install` to install dependencies

### Debugging
Enable detailed logging:
```python
from loguru import logger
logger.add("deepgram_debug.log", level="DEBUG")
```

## Future Improvements

1. **Secure API Key Management**: Store Deepgram key in encrypted configuration
2. **Language Detection**: Auto-detect spoken language
3. **Speaker Diarization**: Identify multiple speakers in interviews
4. **Real-time Transcription**: Stream transcription for live recordings
5. **Custom Models**: Train domain-specific models for technical interviews

## Performance

- **Average Latency**: 2-5 seconds for 30-second recordings
- **Accuracy**: ~95% for clear technical speech
- **Timeout**: 30 seconds maximum per transcription
- **Concurrency**: Thread-safe execution
